>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Most of us can
feel the pain of the crumbling
old structures around us.
The anxiety often
comes in not knowing
what the future holds for our
children and grandchildren.
Author Kingsley Dennis
says that their future
is going to be more innovative,
creative, and whole.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: Dennis thank you from
flying all the way to Spain
to our little studio
here in London.
I'm really intrigued
with your work,
because I look at what we have
left the next generations,
which isn't much-- not
economically, socially,
or otherwise.
And you're talking
about the fact
that it doesn't
matter, because these
are an entirely different
kind of beings, so to speak,
that are going to create the
world in a new way, called
the phoenix generation.
And so before we get into
what the phoenix generation is
and what you expect
from them, do you
mind if I read from your book?
It was right up front, a
quote from Buckminster Fuller.
It says, "Traditional
human power structures
and their reign of darkness are
about to be rendered obsolete,
not taken asunder, but
rendered obsolete."
So explain why you
put that up front.
>>KINGSLEY DENNIS:
Oh, thank you, Regina.
Buckminster Fuller was a
visionary in his own right,
and he was-- he knew very
well how things change,
how systems change.
And that is not necessarily
a case of things
happening overnight.
But how do we bring
in the new models?
And he knew, way back
then, many decades before,
that we're dealing with
incumbent systems that
are obsolete, and they've
passed their due date.
And I'd like to also
refer to another quote
from Buckminster
Fuller, which I also
think hits the nail on the head.
And he said that, "we don't
fight the existing reality.
We need to create
new models that
make the existing
reality obsolete."
And what he's
referring to is how
we need to respond
to incumbent systems
and that often the first wave,
the first reaction or response,
which is very human, when we
see the inequality in the world,
is that we wish to fight
against it directly.
We wish to protest,
which we often see now,
in the first wave
reactions around the world.
Well, this other approach,
the other response,
which is coming in over time,
is that rather than protest
head on, which only really
strengthens incumbent systems
and gives the
present status quo.
>>REGINA: Everyone entrenches
into their position.
>>DENNIS: Yeah.
And it gives them
more power to look
at what we're dealing
with, back into propaganda.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>DENNIS: So what Buckminster
Fuller is referring to--
and I quote also in the
book-- is how we need
and how the phoenix
generation, we're
part of that incoming wave
that will be more savvy, more
instinctual, and will have an
understanding that in order
to make real change,
long-term change,
it's about bypassing
the incumbent systems
and creating new models
that eventually will just
outgrow and overtake.
They will replace
the existing systems.
>>REGINA: Well, that
makes perfect sense.
And that's how nature
works, isn't it?
And everything human
beings have been doing
is going against nature,
thinking we can somehow
go against natural
principles and have it work.
And it doesn't.
As you say, it just reinforces
already obsolete and not
particularly healthy
systems, right?
So now we can go
into-- and we will
have a few airplanes flying
overhead, because all of London
is in the Heathrow
flight path, right?
So we'll hear little bit of
that shadow in the background.
But let's talk about
phoenix generation itself,
the years we're talking about,
when these people were born,
when they will be coming
of age and into power.
>>DENNIS: When I name
the phoenix generation,
I'm talking about a generation
that are being born around now,
in the years now,
a few years before,
but will come of
age around 2030.
>>REGINA: So kind
of 2010 onward.
>>DENNIS: Yeah.
And also because
around 2030, they
will be coming of age in a way
that they will be entering--
entering the workforce,
entering systems--
and will have a greater capacity
to engage with those systems.
So we're dealing with them now.
But of course, they're also a
part of a second or third wave,
because they've been
coming in for a while,
but in very-- in lower numbers.
>>REGINA: What about the
generation right before them,
the ones that started coming
in, say, around late '90s, 2000?
Because they're
kind of interesting.
I mean, each wave
is sort of built
upon the one before, right,
in laying the foundation.
What is the one that is around
18 years of age right now?
What have they laid,
by way of a foundation,
for this incoming
phoenix generation?
>>DENNIS: Well,
the earlier wave,
they often-- I feel
that, in fact, they've
had a harder time,
because of one way
is that they've come
into a system which
is more difficult,
more intangible
for them to deal with.
And also, I feel part
of the responsibility
is from our side, because
we've stigmatized them.
And what I mean by that
is, some of the earlier
references to them, we're
familiar with-- the indigo
children, for example.
And they've been named crystal
children, star children.
>>REGINA: You're talking
about the phoenix generation
right now, or the one before?
>>DENNIS: One before.
>>REGINA: OK, all right.
Gotcha.
>>DENNIS: So the
earlier wave-- and there
was a lot of news about
calling them indigo children.
And there were
comment about they
had maybe super-psychic
abilities.
And I think we went off in
slightly a different direction.
Now, going back to the--
that earlier stage.
Now, the indigo, the
origin of the indigo
is because-- I think it
refers to Nancy Ann Tappe, who
had a neurological condition
called synesthesia,
where she saw people as colors.
And so she saw people's
behavior and attitude as colors.
And so that under-- people's
behaviors and attitudes
came across.
And she saw the new color
coming in as indigo,
more children come in
with that behavior.
Now, it didn't suggest that
they were super-psychic.
It's just they did
things differently.
They were having
different perspectives.
Now, I feel that we did a
slight disservice to them
by over-stigmatizing them.
They are indigo.
They're going to change
the world suddenly.
And yet, we saw instances
where they really
just-- a lot of them
hit, slapped face-on
with the systems.
They had difficulties.
>>REGINA: Well, there was a huge
spurt in autism at that time,
too, certainly in America.
I don't know about Britain.
>>DENNIS: True.
And I think the terminology
and understanding
got slightly mixed.
My feeling is that
those known as indigo
were just an earlier wave
of young children being
born with different wiring.
And that's what we're talking
about with the phoenix
generation.
It's that they're coming
with a different wiring.
They're thinking differently.
They understand
concepts differently.
And importantly,
they're shifting
from relying on
acquired information.
Now acquired information--
>>REGINA: We're going to go
deeply into that, because, yes.
They were born into the matrix
as it's been shifting already,
and so it's been laid
for them, both on kind
of a programmed
level, energetically,
and in terms of data, what
they can have access to.
I find that really fascinating.
But you say that they're--
it's not going to be the end
of things.
We've all-- the other
past generations
have all been looking for the
end of a way, the end of this,
the end of times.
You're saying it's
not about that.
>>DENNIS: No, I don't
think there is an end.
I think, really, we've been
focusing too much on the end.
And we can talk all day
about 2012 and where
that kind of grew
and that phenomenon.
But really, there's been too
much talk about end times
or the end of this.
Really, if we look at the whole
history of human civilization
and the whole growth
of human consciousness,
it's about evolving
systems, in terms
of civilization and ongoing
evolving consciousness.
There has been no end.
There's just been
different phases.
So we can see
transition moments.
And within that
transition moment,
we can see there has been end
of some patterns of thinking.
We can go back.
There's a classic one we say
now-- the leap from the world
was flat to the world was round.
>>REGINA: And
that's what you say
the phoenix
generation brings in,
that degree of shift in
consciousness and awareness.
>>DENNIS: I do feel
that we'll look back
on this time as being as
significant as shifting
from a flat earth
to a round earth.
Because when we have
that shift, it's
a shift in perspectives,
a shift in perception,
a shift in the capacity
of consciousness
to affect our social
systems and civilization.
They're convergent points.
So we have smaller
transitions, smaller movements.
And then there's
times in human history
when everything converges.
And that makes it
a grander moment.
And that, I feel, is what's
coming in now at the same time
frame, a generational
time frame,
as the phoenix generation.
>>REGINA: OK.
If we can divert for just a
moment, because I was intrigued
a moment ago when you said, I
can go on about the 2012 thing.
Why don't you gone on a
bit about the 2012 thing?
Then we'll pick it back up
with the phoenix children.
And we need to look
at these-- I don't
know if you call it an agenda,
that have been laid out for us,
where everyone essentially
goes into fear mode and fear
patterns, which is what
happened over 2012.
Tell us your take on 2012.
>>DENNIS: Well, I think
it's fairly obvious now,
when we look back on it, that it
was-- the information was also
hijacked, as well.
And a lot of the
information was manipulated
to turn this-- initially
this understanding
that it's a moment of great
change into a new cycle
into something
that's the end times.
>>REGINA: Somehow, it became
mixed up with apocalyptic news.
>>DENNIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DENNIS: We've always
had those moments.
We had a smaller moment
in the Millennium bug,
when it was changing to, oh,
dear, we've reached 2000.
All the planes are going
to drop out of the sky.
Fear is a great propaganda tool.
And in fact, fear really
is the main energy
of mainstream traditional news.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DENNIS: I mean, if
you look at propaganda,
the history of propaganda,
which was set up--
one of the godfathers of
propaganda was Edward Bernays.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
There's a wonderful documentary
called, "The Century of Self."
So anyone who hasn't
seen that, I highly
recommend them watching
"The Century of Self,"
very revealing, to see
just how manipulated
the fabric of society has been.
>>DENNIS: And that
matrix of misinformation,
it absorbed 2012.
And so one of the factors of
2012 which were against us
was it put people in limbo,
in that we didn't quite
know what was going
to happen post-2012.
Were we going to
ascend somewhere?
Or were we going to just
completely evaporate?
So people were
waiting, and waiting
to really understand
what was happening.
And I think that took away
some of our activity, in that I
think there's been a
greater energetic spurt
of creative projects
and new thinking
post 2012 because people
have realized that--
>>REGINA: It was on pause, yes.
And it wasn't just a
new age projection;
it was lining up with
fundamentalist Christianity,
for example, where a lot of
these stories and looking
for the signs at the end were
starting to align together.
So you had, really,
a large percentage
of the population--
if you then expand it
to that population--
expecting some kind of end.
Well, life is on pause.
You're not really striving
for anything at that point,
like you said.
And these children were
being born during that time.
>>DENNIS: Exactly.
And what type of--
those messages
were-- it was a
showcase of where,
perhaps, some
[INAUDIBLE] in humanity
in this 2012 confusion.
So what kind of message is that
to give to people coming in,
the new generation?
But what I'm saying
is that they're not
going to pick up on that.
It's like, well,
that's your thing.
But the generation
coming in now,
I feel that they can
have completely a say,
a different
understanding, which is
why they had less faith in
the acquired information,
or less contact with
social conditioning.
And that's a major factor,
which has slowed down
a great generational change,
is social conditioning.
Or another word for that
is social engineering.
And social engineering
has been a major component
of human civilization, human
societies, for centuries,
whether we go back to the
priestly castes centuries ago.
All the way down
the line, there has
been institutions
that have tried
to socially condition the
populous, because that's
the main thing is
that force for change
will have to come
through the individuals.
And that's the tug of war
which is happening now
in this transition and
which will play out
in the generation
coming in, this tug
of war between hierarchical
institutions and the more
decentralized connectivity
and power and energy
between the individuals.
>>REGINA: So let's take a moment
and go back even further, just
a little bit.
We can't just negate an
entire generation of people.
There have been advances that
have been made that have maybe
put some other things in
place they'll have access to,
by way of our generation and
even our parents' generation.
So maybe just hopscotch
quickly through that,
in your mind, what each
one laid foundationally
for the next that was
really necessary as tools
for the next one.
>>DENNIS: Sure.
Very necessary, and we
can't negate it at all.
There's an Eastern
proverb which says,
"You will ride your donkey
to the door of your house,
but you won't ride
it into your house."
And maybe one layer of
meaning that suggests
is that we have one vehicle
to get us to one place.
And then, when
it's time, we need
to get off and take a different
mode of transport, for example.
Now, the evolution
of consciousness
has been increasing
throughout time.
Now, it may not seem that way.
If we look at the history
of the 20th century,
it looks like a history
of warfare, destruction.
And things have been
going down hill.
Well, if you look
at the vocabulary
and the understanding of the
inner world of the human being,
in fact, there's been
an ongoing increase.
Now, for example,
if we look at, let's
say, the second half
of the 19th century,
we had the growth of the
Transcendentalist movement,
in America, especially.
We had the Theosophy
in movement.
We had the growth in
seances, in people
trying to connect
with life after death.
Then we had the
initial stirrings
of psychiatry and
Freud and Jung.
And Wilhelm Reich also,
bringing the vocabulary
of how to access and
understand the inner world.
Then we had a wave of
teachers and teaching
coming over into the
West from the East.
We had Yogananda coming over.
We had a lot of
other Zen teachings,
a lot of Sufi teachers.
And then that went into
the wave of, let's say,
postwar '50s and
'60s, where there's
a great deal of experimentalism
with the inner world,
a great initial contact
with shamanic practices.
>>REGINA: Exploration of
near-death experiences,
out of body
experiences, all of it.
Yes.
>>DENNIS: Channeling, contact
with other intelligences,
the growth of the transcendental
psychology movement,
meditation-- and so
for example, if we
spoke with our grandparents
and said, oh, sorry,
I had a Freudian slip.
Our grandparents would probably
answer, well, who's Freud,
and where did he slip?
Because they didn't have
that vocabulary or language
to try to reflect
upon the inner world.
So if we look at the inner
world different from what
we see in propaganda
from the outer world--
>>REGINA: Externally, yes.
>>DENNIS: --we see,
in fact, a revolution
that's been ongoing
in how we access
and how we experiment and come
to understand the inner world.
And now I feel that's coming
more convergent in how we then
deal with the outer world.
We're bringing
them together, just
like science and spirituality
is coming together
in the fields of knowledge.
So too, I feel,
is the expression
of the inner world
coming together
with how we deal in
our everyday life.
>>REGINA: And we did,
on an external level,
bring forth, as you said in
your book, unprecedented growth,
technological advancement.
And part of this
technological advancement
leads us to the way-- the means
by which people are watching
this today-- the
connectivity of online media,
for example, which
brings us more
to the subject of transparency,
as another example.
And these-- as you were saying
in the book, up until now,
we all lead relatively
compartmentalized
lives-- regions, countries,
states, neighborhoods.
Now, it's all connected.
And this is the medium to which
these children are being born.
And this is interesting,
because our generation
is suspicious of that degree
of connectivity, even Facebook,
for example.
Who wants everyone to know
all of their data, everything
they're doing, kind of the
eye on the sky mentality?
Let's talk about the interface
between that and then the newer
generation and how they're
going to feel about it,
being bathed in
transparency from day one.
>> DENNIS: That's a
huge question, Regina.
>>REGINA: Take your time.
>>DENNIS: The world is
shifting now into different--
a different temporal-spatial
environment.
So for example-- and
this, again, as you say,
owes a great debt to the process
of the Industrial Revolution,
bringing in the radio,
the television, which
started to bring in different
forms of time and space
for our parents or grandparents.
But it was mostly
one-on-one, one-way.
And we were receivers.
So it developed a
consumerist environment,
where we received information.
Now, we're on the cusp
off putting in place
the initial mechanisms
or initial birth
pains of moving towards
a planetary society.
Now, that may put a lot of
fear into people by saying,
oh, planetary society, one
world government, the Borg,
et cetera.
That's understandable.
Because when something
new comes in, of course,
the incumbent power
structures wish
to appropriate it
for their own use.
So we see the surveillance.
We see the NSA, National
Security Agency.
>>REGINA: Oh, walking down
the streets of London-- CCTV
cameras everywhere.
>>DENNIS: The most
CCTV city in the world.
>>REGINA: My god.
You can't walk down the
street without being on film.
>>DENNIS: So our
generation as well, we
have that fear of, well,
this is not good for us.
Another thing we're
noticing, though,
is that as we're become
more connected in the world,
that time and space
interaction is actually
creating a response nueronally.
And the young children are
being rewired differently.
Now, there's a wonderful
quote that goes back
to the 13th century from
the great Persian poet Rumi,
Mewlana.
And Rumi said that, "New
organs of perception
come into being
according to necessity.
Therefore, oh human,
increase your necessity."
>>REGINA: Yes, it's beautiful.
>>DENNIS: And so the
necessity is coming in now.
And so-- I mean,
there's many instances--
we can talk about that later--
of how the young children are
being more tactile
and more empathic.
So now, how do we look
at that perspective?
Now, we can have the
fear perspective,
which is what the incumbent
powers wish to play out.
Be careful of technology.
Be careful of the
globalization-- which
was a neo-liberal
project-- because it's
going to control you.
The question is,
though-- is it going
to control or be able to control
a new consciousness, which
is coming in and is going to
be using these technologies
in a different way.
>>REGINA: Talk about that.
Talk about how you see
that technology being used,
say, 10 years out,
when these kids
are coming into their
teenage years and such.
>>DENNIS: Well, in
one sense, we're
seeing the early signs
of that with the protest
revolutions around the
world, with the Arab Spring,
for example, and the Jasmine
Revolution, that they
used technologies to bypass the
communications when the state
authorities cut
the communications.
So they're very tech savvy.
But also, it's the
way of collaborating.
It's that, like you
said previously,
we've been conditioned to have
a compartmentalized view of life
and a compartmentalized
behaviorism,
because that helps
the nation-states.
That helps to support this
divided world-- them versus us.
But the empathic
consciousness, which
is going to be empowered
through this collaborative,
connective society, that
empathic consciousness is not
going to feel-- not
going to feel into
or even play out the
same them versus us.
So if we look at, for
example, manifestations
in the Middle East.
Now, the big players,
the older generation
or what I call the old guard,
they're standing up and saying,
we have to be at war
with these people.
They're against us.
What they're not showing
us is the younger people
on the ground.
They want peace.
They want to connect.
And so they're using
social networking
to connect with others, like
minded, across the barriers
or across the so-called
artificial barriers.
And they're reaching out.
So it's a different level.
It's a decentralized,
distributed connectivity
which is coming
in, and that is--
>>REGINA:
Decentralization, keyword.
>>DENNIS: And empathic
consciousness as well.
>>REGINA: Which is
interesting, because we're
talking about global structures,
global governments, perhaps
even global economies,
and decentralization
at the same time.
Right?
>>DENNIS: It's the two
agendas playing out.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: For example, we're
at the end of empires now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yours went down, and
now ours is going down.
>>DENNIS: The boat is sinking.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: You see, let's take
the metaphor of drowning.
A drowning person is a
person who struggles more.
Sometimes they say,
be careful if you go
and try to save a
drowning person,
because they may take
you down with them.
Because they're struggling,
and they're struggling.
And they're in
their death throes.
And it's a dangerous
place to be.
So now, people
may say, well, you
have a positive
view of the future.
But what about what
we see in the world?
My response is, well, I'm
looking at the long term.
If you look at the
shorter term, then we're
seeing these death throes,
which are quite dangerous.
And they are creating the
disruption and the disharmony.
And they're the negative energy.
>>REGINA: But they're
quite necessary.
It's just a part of
the process of change.
>>DENNIS: And again, I think
humanity, by our very nature,
has a short term-- history
of short-term view.
If we look back at the
history of civilizations--
and forgive me, because my
background is sociology.
I did come through
that academic field.
And we see how
civilizations, they
go through a rise and a fall.
But in fact often when
they're taking over,
the new power that comes in
doesn't come from the center.
It comes from the periphery.
Because the center tries to
hold out, tries to hold out,
tries to centralize their
power, but they can no longer
maintain a coherence
with the periphery.
And so they fold, and
the new energies--
such as the fall of Rome was
because the Visigoths came in
from the periphery.
Now, what I'm saying is that
the individuals of this world
are going to come in
from the periphery,
and they're going to be
connected like never before.
And that is why
there's a greater
fear with the authorities.
Because they see it
coming, and they don't know
how to deal with it.
Their only response,
with the old mind,
is to increase the
centralized power structures.
It's an old paradigm
response, but it's not
going to play out
in the long term
because it can't hold
off the periphery.
>>REGINA: It can't hold,
because it's actually
a wholesale shift
in consciousness
by that point, in which the
people aren't fearing other.
They've been connected
with-- kids in UK
have been connected with
the kids in the Ukraine
during all of this.
They're learning about
each other's strife,
in friendships and so forth.
But let's go beyond that.
As you say, this
generation is going
to be more empathic
and more intuitive,
meaning the senses,
our finer senses,
will be opening up, beginning
with-- and en masse-- beginning
with that generation,
meaning there
is no such thing as
compartmentalization.
You can't hide.
In that sense, that's
where-- I don't like the fact
that my data is all over
the place on the computer,
and agencies and
whoever might have that.
But the reality
is, they're more--
there's nothing to hide
because you can't hide.
If you have those kinds of
instincts highly developed,
what's to hide?
You can't hide from that
degree of consciousness.
visibility with others, right?
>>DENNIS: It's true.
And that's exactly-- again,
that's our social conditioning
is the fear of this
information coming out.
But the key word I think
you mentioned earlier,
Regina, is transparency.
Is that the transparency--
our generation
is still uncomfortable
with that.
And of course, it
plays into the system.
It plays into politics,
where everything is cloaked.
Everything is the
emperor's new clothes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: And our generation--
and previously more
so-- is that we did not
want to question that.
We were hesitant to question it.
We had what we call
obedience to authority.
And we can refer to the great
Stanley Milgram experiment
about how we follow authority
if someone wears a lab coat.
We see someone on television
wearing a white coat saying,
this washing powder is the best.
We believe them.
The shift is--
One of the major
shifts taking place
is that automatic conditioning
is not going to apply.
And so we're going
to come to a syndrome
where the emperor
is really going
to be seen for
having no clothes.
>>REGINA: Well, we all are.
Isn't that what
we're all afraid of?
That's the interesting thing.
The newer generation-- the kids
that are now in their teens,
for example, even into their
'20s, and then of course
younger-- don't seem
to have any fear
of being seen for who they are.
And they'll put their worst
behavior out there, even,
where our generation
is still looking
at not being seen for the flawed
humans that we actually are.
This is a huge
psychological shift,
to move from hiding our
flaws to allowing ourselves
to be so publicly visible.
>>DENNIS: Yeah.
And it's also a question
of digital identity.
It's something completely
new for many of us
in the older generation.
What is digital identity?
Because we've been living
in a physical world.
Now we're moving towards a
convergence of the inner world,
the outer world, and a
technological world as well.
And so we will need to
navigate all of that.
And for us, it's difficult.
We have that fear.
Now, the younger
generations, they
don't have that fear,
because they sense it.
They pick it up.
They pick it up
because they haven't
known anything different.
Now, a major point is
that this generation
will be the first generation
being born into a world where
it's already set
up technologically
with the internet,
virtual technologies.
>>REGINA: The consciousness.
>>DENNIS: Yeah.
And so before-- previous
generations still
had to learn
something, navigate it.
And so the energetic
environment,
with the phoenix generation
we're moving into,
will seem organic
and natural to them.
And that's an important point.
>>REGINA: And more non-linear.
That's another point you
bring up in your book.
Their reality will be a
more nonlinear reality.
>>DENNIS: And their
brain, for example, which
is only just one small organ.
The mind is the extended
mind, the whole body.
>>REGINA: And beyond.
>>DENNIS: And beyond.
And that's another point
I think we should get to.
>>REGINA: Let's do.
>>DENNIS: How the
internet really
is a reflection
of the inner mind.
So because their neurons
are firing differently,
their connectivity with this,
their understanding of time
and space, it's
organic for them.
And so that's why we needed to
wait for generational change.
That's why we go from
one day to the next.
For example, the economic
crash came in September, 2008.
And everyone thought, that's it.
This is the trigger.
Tomorrow will be different.
No.
Even if it changes over the next
15 years, Regina, toward 2030,
in terms of
evolutionary time span,
that is still an incredibly
short amount of time.
I don't think there's
ever been such
a short time of radical change.
And so we're having a
convergence now, which
we can call a tipping point,
to use that terminology-- where
we're seeing the convergence
of that understanding of how
to connect the inner world
with the outer world,
with technology, with
a consciousness which
is naturalized to that.
>>REGINA: And one of the ways
in which we used to-- speaking
of linear, the way
history is played out
will look completely different.
Because as your
write in the book,
military activity has
been the milestone
of our historical timeline,
globally, for a very long time.
And let's talk about
that-- how time
starts changing when
you're no longer keeping
your clock by military
confrontations.
>>DENNIS: And that
time of time scales
is very territorial,
military territorial,
moving forward over the map.
But the map is changing.
And as I mentioned
earlier, the end of empires
is over, because there's so the
global players out there now.
And we're so interdependent.
And that's the
key-- a key phase,
that we need that
interdependency
to go beyond this
compartmentalization, the time
frame of militarization.
Because then it's-- we have a
totally different perspective.
We're not looking at
time and territory.
We're looking at connectivity
and collaboration.
>>REGINA: Yes,
completely different way
to look at our timeline.
And so you say the
extension of this
is that time may be
viewed, in the future,
looking back, by changes in
our understanding of cosmology,
philosophy, science,
art, and myths.
So there may be some great
breakthrough in cosmology
that is the marker
in time, for example.
Let's talk about
these changes and what
you expect to see with this
generation and forward.
>>DENNIS: Well,
for example, I like
to talk about how this
time of innovation, time
of understanding has
exponentialized--
is exponential because
of its connectivity.
Now, let's put one example.
Is that, if we put a
question into a computer
and say what's the
answer, the computer
would take a long
time to find out.
Now, SETI program
came along and used
people's individual
computers in their home
to share the research.
That's distributed intelligence.
Now, that's now playing
out in the individual minds
of humanity, the same model.
Is that, rather than one
person coming up-- like Tesla,
for example-- and
saying, I have an idea,
now we're moving into
a time where there's
going to be many Teslas of
the world, many people tapping
into the consciousness of ideas.
Because if consciousness is not
inside the head, it's outside.
So when you one Tesla standing
up and saying, I have an idea,
the power structure goes, boom.
I've got you.
How do you expand
upon that idea?
How do you have great
change from this?
>>REGINA: Well, and until now,
when the Teslas have emerged,
they've been taken
down, systematically
destroyed because whatever
it is they had to offer
was not in alignment with the
either military, industrial,
or corporate environment.
>>DENNIS: Sure.
And that model is changing.
Because when people can
connect up between themselves,
share their ideas, share their
like-minded vision-- now, what
I feel that we're
going to move towards
is more of the young people
of the phoenix generation,
because they're accessing
this intuitive intelligence,
they're going to have access
to ideas and the consciousness
field, where many
people would have
similar revelations or different
understanding of cosmology,
for example, or many different
fields, at a similar time.
Now, when that filters back
into a connected global space,
then you have that kind of--
that information cannot be held
down.
And that coming
out is really going
to create exponential change.
Information is
going to be filtered
through their humanity.
>>REGINA: It is.
And one of the parts of
your book I just loved
is when you were giving
an example-- by way
of an experiment, I
believe-- of collective mind,
such as what you're
talking, about the power
of collective mind.
And it had to do with
the weighing of an ox.
So tell us that story, because
I found it fascinating.
>>DENNIS: And the interesting
thing of that story
is that it came about because
the person was a scientist who
wanted to disprove it.
And so it's like, again,
the Trojan horse metaphor.
Is that someone wants to take
something to disprove it,
but it ends up actually
on the contrary.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and it's revealing
about our connectedness
with each other.
So let's talk about collective
intelligence and the ox,
the weight of the ox.
>>DENNIS: The
weight of the ox, it
goes back to the 19th century--
middle of the 19th century
in a British marketplace,
whereby these country fairs,
they have the ox.
And in order to--
they raffle the ox.
So what they do is
that they ask people
to guess the weight of the ox.
And of course, the
one who guesses
the weight or the
nearest wins the ox,
a way of making money very
much similar to crowd funding
today, in a sense.
>>REGINA: In a sense.
>>DENNIS: But what
happened was that when
this social
scientist-- actually,
he wanted to disapprove
the power of democracy.
He was saying that
what happens when
you ask people to
collectively give their ideas?
You get chaos.
So therefore, we
don't need democracy.
We should have an
elite power structure,
because that's the
only coherence.
Now, what he did-- he took
all the lottery findings.
Because, rightly
so, nobody won it.
>>REGINA: When you
say lottery, these
were the guesses, the
estimates of the weight.
>>DENNIS: Like a raffle,
a lottery, guess.
People would write the
figure and put it in.
So when he took all
those lottery tickets
and he added up
all the estimates,
he found that when he took
the average, it was spot on.
That was the weight of the ox.
>>REGINA: Isn't that amazing?
>>DENNIS: Now, of
course, a scientist
would say, well, empirically,
that doesn't prove anything.
It was just the
average you took.
But of course, we're
not talking empiricism.
We're talking about the power
of collective intelligence
to arrive at solutions
by coming together.
>>REGINA: Yes.
No, I thought that
was fascinating.
And when you overlay that
collective intelligence,
that transparency, that
interconnectedness globally,
you're also saying
that this generation
is going to be coming in
with a-- I don't know,
maybe a sense-- maybe that
would be what it's called--
of abundance rather than lack,
even though they're being born
into a time which is certainly
being challenged economically.
But that psychologically
they're going
to be bringing in this
sense of abundance,
and it doesn't mean
money, per say.
So let's talk about
what that means.
Because wow, what a
shift that would be.
All of the people in this
reality are on lack and fear
as a basis.
>>DENNIS: And that's
been part of the duality
that we're struggling with,
because abundance and scarcity
has been the them
versus us divide.
It's a wonderful division
to control people.
>>REGINA: Now, if the collective
feels abundant by nature,
let's talk about what
that abundant looks like.
>>DENNIS: Now, resources
throughout human civilization
have always been controlled,
because that gives power,
so whether it's energy
or finances or just
social mobility.
Now, when that's controlled,
when there's resources,
then we have the scarcity model,
because the scarcity model
is an artificial model.
Now, we have resource
in this world.
We have enough food.
We have energy.
We can talk about
the whole range
of resources that are available.
But it's the models
that don't work.
Now, if we're looking at
different models-- if we look,
for example, crowd
funding, which we just
mentioned, about how individuals
can seek input from each other,
to even economically just pay
$1 or $2 to finance something.
Or where we have
distributed energy programs,
localized energy can
distribute energy
from what is abundant
in that area.
Because the centralized model
takes energy from one place
and spends a lot
of-- wastes a lot
of energy to transport it to
another place, to control it.
Now, if we have new models
coming in that will work on,
for example, localized
economies, localized energies,
technological collaboration,
just innovation
is a great resource.
Empowerment, even positivity
is an abundant model.
Now, these have all been
scarce artificially.
So if we look at models that
are coming in and taking
the distributed collective
way forward, then in fact,
we don't have the
scarcity model.
It's just a case of
where do we use it from
and how do we channel it?
And who does it go to?
So in fact, there isn't
really the scarcity model
there at all.
That's been, I think,
an artificial--
>>REGINA: Artificially
constructed.
>>DENNIS: Smoke screen.
But we still need time
to break away from it.
>>REGINA: But even when
you talk about-- I mean,
an interface might be,
as you mentioned before,
crowd funding.
With crowd funding,
we feel as though we
are empowered in that we're
aligning with our own choices,
rather than what we're
being led toward.
So that's just the
beginning of being
able to use a
couple dollars here,
a couple dollars
there to support
what we're in alignment with.
And they come into a world where
that is how they're living.
In general, that's
how they're living.
You were talking about--
the modern civilization
we know now, in
contrast to that,
has created an
infantile state of mind.
What did you mean by that?
>>DENNIS: What I
meant by that, Regina,
is that we've been conditioned
to have a form of dependency
and to have the fear of freedom.
Now, it sounds contradictory,
but one of the greatest fears
that we've been dealing
with is freedom,
because we've grown up within
a control mechanism, a control
matrix, where dependency
is at the forefront.
Now, whether it's-- because
the exploitation there is
because, biologically, when
the human being is born,
it's dependent upon the
mother or the guardian.
Now, the human being
actually, as a social animal,
requires a greater
length of dependency
than most other animals.
Most other animals, they
have an instinct which
they can be independent in a
very short time-- human beings,
no.
One of the reasons
is that a human being
is born with less time to
develop, because of the way
it's given birth,
the birth canal.
So the brain isn't
fully developed.
The nervous system
isn't fully developed.
So the brain of a young
child and the nervous system
of a young child
completes its development
in social atmosphere.
So that dependency's
is the first stage.
When that is then taken to
further degrees deliberately
and, for example,
have dependency
on maybe our peers, our
teachers, anyone in a uniform.
Now, the economic system
has developed that,
that we have dependency.
>>REGINA: Oh, take
it all the way
through to your last
breath, that you
work for-- starting at age 23
toward a pension of dependency
on a system.
Soul killing.
>>DENNIS: If we say
to people, well,
if you want to change
your priorities,
change your life patterns.
Change your country.
And people will say,
well, wonderful advice.
But I have a mortgage.
I have a debt with the bank.
I can't move away
from my job because I
have to pay my credit
every month or my mortgage.
>>REGINA: So that's
our generation.
That's not going to be
their generation, per se.
>>DENNIS: I think they're
not going to buy into that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: Because they're
going to see it a mile off.
>>REGINA: Yay.
>>DENNIS: Because the
worst thing we can do
is give away our power, give
away our inner authority.
>>REGINA: And what
you say about that
is, when you're caught
in the old dynamic
that we are in, which is that
lack and fear based culture--
globally, pretty much--
it creates responses that
are extreme in nature, a
need for extreme feeling,
for violent sports,
and so forth.
You're saying that, again,
is what that generation will
be moving away from.
>>DENNIS: Yes.
I mean, violent sports, for
example, a sense of extreme.
>>REGINA: Part of
the repression, yes.
>>DENNIS: That extreme
release is a human need
as a counterbalance to
this internal constriction.
Now, for example, we hear
stories of, for example,
rock stars.
They go into hotels.
They smash TVs.
They think, oh, this
extremism, society loves it.
And young people think, this is
a wonderful sense of freedom.
What they don't
realize is that they
do that to sell more records.
It's encouraged by
the record industry.
It's all playing the game.
>>REGINA: Well, speaking
of playing the game,
a couple days ago, we were
walking down the street
here in Chelsea.
And Chelsea had
just won a football,
or soccer match in our parlance.
Oh, my god, it's
frightening being there.
People had their flip
cams and their cell phones
taping each other, because
they were fighting and brawling
and so forth.
Because-- I don't
understand it, of course.
And I used to be a sportscaster.
But I don't understand the
mania and what's swept up
and what people are endowing
that sport with by way
of their emotions and their
commitment and their passion
into something
really so irrelevant.
>>DENNIS: For them, it's--
I can't talk for all these
people, because everyone
has a different reason
for their connection to it.
It's a form of social identity.
It's a need for
attachment to something.
And if we can't attach with
something which gives us
fulfillment, then we
look for something.
And it's a very powerful
release mechanism.
Now, the working week
is another example.
Why do we-- most of us
have the weekend off.
Why are such drugs as
alcohol socially acceptable?
It's because we go
out on the weekend.
We have complete blow out.
>>REGINA: Go to
your football match,
then have a blow out or
the two at the same time.
>>DENNIS: Come back to work
Monday morning feeling happy,
because you felt like you've--
>>REGINA: You've
gotten to release
all of that anxiety,
stress, and so
forth for a short bit of time.
So with a generation
that's coming
in more connected and more
holistic in their thought,
this should-- we
should see a dying down
of this kind of
attachment as well?
>>DENNIS: Well, I feel
it'll be more organic,
because they'll-- the
new generation will look
in different areas
for nourishment.
And also, because
they're connecting
with an instinctual
intelligence, then they'll be--
they'll feel less of the lack.
Now, we need nourishment, but
how do we find nourishment?
Now, a lot of the
extremism is-- comes
from a lack of self worth,
which is also encouraged
by society to
increase dependency.
>>REGINA: No wonder we're
trying to hide what we feel
or the shameful aspects
of self, really.
>>DENNIS: Transparency.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
We're afraid of transparency.
We're made to feel
ashamed of ourselves.
>>DENNIS: And if we
feel good in ourselves,
transparency isn't an issue.
Another word for transparency
is sharing, collaboration.
And we've been conditioned
not to collaborate.
An example is, when I was
at school and make yourself,
if we wanted to collaborate
with our neighbor,
you got your hand slapped.
It was called cheating.
>>REGINA: Exactly, except
in the Waldorf School.
I remember, the one
thing I loved about it.
My son was in the
Waldorf system.
And that was the
only system I notice
where they did this, where
the teacher would say,
please, you're going to
have a test tomorrow.
Share with each other.
I'm leaving the room.
And he encouraged them to
all share their information.
He said, it's best for
all of you if you do that.
And I thought, that's
the wave of the future.
>>DENNIS: Indeed.
And they were spot on
with that, and earlier.
>>REGINA: Yes,
creating-- he was trying
to discourage the need for
competition within the group.
And now, so how does
competition factor
into this new generation?
>>DENNIS: Well, as
I've talked about,
we're moving toward
different value systems.
And so I call them C values,
because in English language,
these words are C words.
They're competition,
conflict, control.
And I say that the
new values which
will be taken on board
by the new generations
will be collaboration,
compassion, communication,
and consciousness.
And so competition,
it keeps us fighting
against the Joneses or
the people next door.
Because it wants--
we feel that we
want to get to the
top of the ladder.
That's what we're
expected of us.
And to get there, we have
to push everyone away.
And then that's the
control mechanism
which helps society to
continue to engineer itself
and to keep the top players
there and the masses
without access.
And that's another key
word, Regina, is access.
We're moving into the age of
access-- open source software,
access to information, access
to other minds and other hearts.
Now, that's another
exponential energy.
>>REGINA: How does that
not become hijacked?
Just as the
spiritual and new age
movements of expanded
awareness and consciousness
were hijacked into even
something like 2012,
how is the emergence of
their new consciousness
not going to be hijacked
again and turned
into something it shouldn't be?
>>DENNIS: Well, I'm
not saying it won't.
I feel that there'll
be attempts to do that.
What's changing is our, or
humanity's, response to that
and recognition of it.
Now, before, we
were-- many of us
were saying, what is
the real information.
We don't have-- we may not
have a fully developed detector
in-built with us to be able
to distinguish what's true
and what is false.
And that was our work.
>>REGINA: They're going to
have an inherent software that
detects the difference.
>>DENNIS: More so.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: Now, our
generation perhaps had
to do more work on
themselves, to be
able to have a feeling, a sense.
And so when there's an increased
instinctual intelligence,
as opposed to
acquired information,
then that recognition
will be more immediate.
>>REGINA: And you say
this is essentially
the rise of inner authority,
rather than external authority.
This will be-- we're the
bridging generation, or then
ones younger than us are
the bridging generation
to the move toward
inner authority, which
changes the whole game.
>>DENNIS: And this is a natural
endowment of the human being.
In fact, we've always had
it, but it's been stifled,
and it's been
basically denied us
through-- we talk
about conditioning
and the age of dependency.
And even now, we're
dependent on everything,
whether it's food
sourcing, security,
a roof over our head--
the basic needs of Maslow.
And as Abraham Maslow said, if
we can't cover our basic needs,
we cannot work toward
self-actualization.
To work on ourselves
is a luxury.
>>REGINA: For most
people, because we're
exhausted at the end of the day.
>>DENNIS: Of course, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah, working
a couple jobs just
to keep roof over head.
So along with this comes the
emergence, or reemergence,
of respect and embracing
of the feminine aspect
of consciousness.
And you say that the internet
embraces the feminine.
It reflects feminine
aspect of consciousness.
How so?
>>DENNIS: Because
it's multi-relational.
Now, when I talk about
feminine consciousness,
again, we do suffer
from vocabulary.
So I'm not trying to create a
divide between male and female.
>>REGINA: No, no,
it's more yin-yang.
I get that.
>>DENNIS: There are aspects
of each, which we will have,
but which maybe are
manifested more by others.
Now, the female consciousness
is one of, let's say,
multi-relational tasking, the
ability to connect, to share,
and collaborate.
And it's non-linear.
Now, a male consciousness may be
more goal orientated and fixed
on completing a task
rather than moving
through several processes.
Now, processional
consciousness may
be more of the feminine energy.
Now, the internet
works that way.
And we can say it's
quite circular.
Now, one example
which I've referred to
is that if we look in
history, an institution which
has a very strong male
consciousness manifestation
has been orthodox religion.
Now, we've had the priest at
the top, not allowing access
to any information, controlled.
>>REGINA: Vertical access.
>>DENNIS: Vertical, yeah.
And now we had the Inquisition.
We had the witch hunts.
We had the-- many of the
female population stigmatized
for being witches.
And how did they gather?
They gathered in circles.
Now, you have this imagery
of the vertical controlled
and this feminine coming
together in circles, gathering.
And there's nothing more than
putting the fear into authority
than people gathering.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And you even call that
feminine yin energy
having a magical
presence to it, which
is what created the
repression of it
within these old patriarchal
systems to begin with.
>>DENNIS: It's
something very sacred.
Gathering, sharing,
coming together
is something very sacred.
So when we have such things
as the Burning Man event,
or even now, the rise
of music festivals--
in England, Glastonbury
is the major example.
Now, we can say
it's very tribal,
but there's an energy
there which we share,
which is a collective
field energy, which
has always been there.
But people feel energy--
energized by that.
And many people feel
that's so natural.
That's our natural inheritance.
We feel inspired by it.
It's something very sacred.
In fact, we could
go as far as to say
that these gatherings are a
new shamanizing of humanity.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
And so that will be
more common expression
of the generation that's rising,
of course, the need to gather.
Let's talk about,
from these young kids
and the ones just prior to
them, the emerging genius
that you talk
about in your book.
And we can even talk about--
use Steven Gonzales Jr.
as an example this kind
of shocking genius.
I thought it was
precocious at one time.
Now I see that this is just
the way it's going to be,
and it's lovely.
>>DENNIS: And we're seeing
instances popping up
with new YouTube videos all
around the net of young people
coming forward, giving
speeches at 12 years old.
>>REGINA: Shockingly brilliant.
>>DENNIS: 11 years old-- and
they understand the system.
They're saying, well,
what is going on?
Now, in the past, we may
have called them prodigies.
And perhaps many prodigies
were an earlier wave of this.
Now, I think we're going to
come a time where we may just
scrap the word genius because
there are too many of them.
You can't have a world
of geniuses all over.
So another phrase that I use is
that this is not the new age;
it's the new normal.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DENNIS: And for
me, that's critical.
Is to normalize
what we're moving
into so the young
children don't feel
that they're something
really different.
They're not weird.
We shouldn't stigmatize them.
They are the new normal.
And the new normal are
these young children
who, for us, seem like geniuses.
For example, I talk
about in the book
young children writing
applications for programs
that help people to want
anti-illness, anti-bullying.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
Yes.
>>DENNIS: Go ahead.
>>REGINA: No, you go ahead,
more examples, please.
>>DENNIS: Well, the young
children who wrote an app
for young children at
school to connect with it,
to talk about their bullying
experiences and to gain help;
and a young boy-- I
forget his name now--
who suffered from
illness-- I think cancer--
wrote an app to actually--
>>REGINA: Oh, I think that
was Steven Gonzales, yes.
>>DENNIS: Now, their
age-- in one instance,
another young girl wrote an
app for a school project.
And the school didn't
believe or couldn't
believe that she
actually wrote it.
So they actually asked her to
write it again with monitors,
to see that she had the
capacity to write it.
We don't have that faith,
unless we can see it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I find that fascinating.
And one of the things that,
if you go further into this,
and if you want to dive down to
this end of the pool-- and not
everybody's on board with this.
But the interesting thing
is, we look at that.
And then our
generation would almost
have an envy to be so free, to
be so brilliant and so open,
to be connected, passionate,
have the heart open once again.
From that, shouldn't
we see a huge shift
in creativity,
levels of creativity?
>>DENNIS: Yes.
And also, a thing
to say, Regina,
is that it may not
be all smooth, easy.
>>REGINA: Well, I don't
think the transition is
going to be smooth at all.
Like you say, and as I
said earlier, in nature,
these things happen over time.
And there's always that
rough spot in the transition.
Let's just assume we're going
through some rough spots ahead.
But let's go beyond that.
>>DENNIS: And those
sandpaper moments,
those rough spots are
the catalysts for change,
catalysts for creativity.
So we need them.
And creativity is infectious.
It's not only diseases
which are infectious.
Good things are infectious.
And I think creativity
is going to be
one of the new
infections that are
going to enter
the global sphere.
And so for example, if a
young child or even a parent
looks at these
examples on YouTube
of another young
child doing this,
then the parent will say,
well, maybe to their child--
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
possible, obviously.
>>DENNIS: What do
you want to do?
How can I help you?
And the young child will
say, I may need this.
I may need that.
And the parent will say,
well, I'll help you, if I can.
So in the past, maybe the
parent would say to the child,
do you want to play
a musical instrument?
And that was the kind of one
of the aspects of creativity,
playing a musical instrument.
But that's going to
be a whole playing
field of new creativity.
>>REGINA: This is
going to create a need
for a completely different
way of education.
Can you talk about
your vision of that?
>>DENNIS: Yes.
Well, education
is going to be one
of the areas of
significant change.
And it's going to
be a game changer.
And we're seeing that
now with, for example,
such institutions as Khan
Academy on the internet,
where information is being
made available for anyone
to come into contact
with it and to use that.
It's a peer to
peer educational--
>>REGINA: You think
the school room
is going to be a
thing of the past?
>>DENNIS: Yeah, I
mean, the classroom.
>>REGINA: Has to be.
>>DENNIS: The four
walls is a prison.
And the school
curriculum is a prison,
because that ideal of
learning in isolation,
but not-- I don't think
it's called learning.
I think it's called
memorization.
And that's a consequence of the
Industrial Revolution, the work
houses, were just to educate
the young children enough
to put them in the workforce.
Now, those four
walls, I think, are
going to slowly dissolve,
because the first wave is
computers coming
into the classroom.
Students now are reaching
to other students
in other countries, other
classrooms, to share projects.
And I think there's
going to be a shift.
The first wave is that
students will then also
start to ask other students to
mark through their own work.
It won't even be called
marking, feedback.
And how do they evaluate
their own work together?
So it's not just
a teacher saying,
this is X marks or anything.
So they'll be collaborating
between themselves.
>>REGINA: And all
different age grades.
I mean, it's all going to be a
matter of what your ability is,
regardless of if you're
11 or 18 years old.
There's a model school in
Russia doing that right now.
And the genius levels-- I mean,
we'll still say genius for now.
Really, it's amazing.
>>DENNIS: And young people can
mentor other young children.
You won't have to
give your authority
to one teacher in the classroom.
>>REGINA: No.
I like this vision of
the future in education.
Absolutely.
And in the end, people
will say, oh, my god.
They're going to shut
down the internet.
And I always say,
don't worry about it.
Some 12-year-old
will write code.
It'll be back up
again by morning,
which is turning out to be true.
And also, if you want to
get super esoteric about it,
if we look at a circle
of life, for those
who buy into the notion
of reincarnation,
those beings are just
setting us up for ourselves
later on perhaps.
>>DENNIS: We're
nurturing ourselves.
>>REGINA: We're
nurturing ourselves
in our future generation
and iteration of ourselves.
We just have a minute.
Any final comments?
>>DENNIS: I'd like to say that
one of the emphases that I try
to put out there is that we
have all the resources we need.
We have all the tools.
And those tools are
mostly within us.
It's about empowering
ourselves for us
to make a change in the world.
We don't need to
make a global event.
We can make individual gestures.
And I think my
feeling, my sense,
is that the world
is going to change
through thousands and then
millions of individual gestures
coming into the global playing
field, the global planetary
mind, planetary heart.
So don't be disheartened.
Don't feel, what can I do.
Every gesture, every
intention, every heart energy,
every word spoken is
all part of the future
of the energetic connectivity.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Thank you so much
for joining us here.
>>DENNIS: My pleasure.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Again, the
name of Kingsley's book
is "The Phoenix
Generation," which
is a beautiful vision for
our future and for ourselves.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on Gaiam TV in London.
[MUSIC PLAYING]